Add post: Blocking candidates from applying for courses that do not sponsor visas (#1044)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/apply-for-teacher-training/2023-10-31-blocking-candidates-with-no-visa.md

---
title: Stopping candidates from applying for courses that do not sponsor visas

> description:

Reviewer: need to add a description here. Maybe: We designed a pattern to stop international candidates applying for courses that cannot sponsor visas.

Author: Oh i thought I added, dont know where it went!

---

> title: Blocking candidates from applying for courses that do not sponsor visas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Stopping candidates from applying for courses that do not sponsor visas
```

description:
date: 2023-10-31
tags:
  - visa sponsorship
  - international
---

> There was an agreement that it is beneficial to block certain user groups from submitting an application. Specifically when a course will not sponsor visas, and the candidate does not have the right to work or study in the UK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first 2 weeks of the 2023 to 2024 recruitment cycle, we a 188% increase in international candidates submitting applications. We worked with out policy team to design a pattern to stop international candidates (who do not have the right to work or study in the UK) from applying to a course that does not sponsor visas.
```

## The issue

> In 2022-2023 cycle we have had over 4,800 candidate applications rejected due to not having visa sponsorship. This wastes candidate and provider time, whilst also reducing candidates' chance of finding a course match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the 2022 to 2023 recruitment cycle we have had over 4,800 applications rejected due to not having visa sponsorship. This wastes candidate and provider time, whilst also reducing a candidate's chance of finding a a suitable course.
```

> In 2023-2024 cycle there was a high proportion of rejection on day one due to no visa.

Reviewer: Maybe we don't need this line as we've already mentioned rejections above? What you said above is more impressive I think.

> We used to have a blue inset text on the application tab, once they have already applied to the course, warning them that this course does not offer visa sponsorship and that they need to delete their application and to look for a different course that does offer visa sponsorship. We have found that it doesnt stop the candidates sufficiently, and needed a different way to stop them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, when a candidate had chosen a course, we showed blue inset text warning them this course does not offer visa sponsorship. The content said they need to delete their application and look for a different course that does offer visa sponsorship. 

This inset text did not stop candidates from submitting their application without changing it. We needed a different way to stop them.
```

![Screenshot of how we used to tell candidates that the course does not sponsor visas](before.png)

## What we did

> We have revisited the user journey from when they fill out their details in 'Your details' tab to adding an application on 'Your application' tab, to include the logic that when a candidate answers the question about the 'right to work or study in UK' with 'No' in their 'personal information' section, to not allow them to add an application that does not have visa sponsorship, and they would be displayed with a warning and link to Find service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have revisited the user journey from when candidates fill out their details in the 'Your details' tab to adding an application on the 'Your application' tab. 

We hid the submit button and replaced it with a warning message to stop the candidate submitting their application. This message would show if a candidate answers ‘No’ to the question about if they have the right to work or study in UK, and they add a course that does not have visa sponsorship.
```

![Screenshot of how the application review page looks like with the blocking pattern](after.png)

> We went with the above screenshot example, because:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the content for the warning message, we added a link to Find postgraduate teacher training (Find) so that candidates could easily find a different and more suitable course.
```

> - They know what they have told us about their visa status.

Reviewer: I'd maybe leave these 3 bullets out, as I think we've mentioned them in the post already.
